On the inversion of submesoscale information from SST and Ocean Color to
improve larger scale dynamics deduced from altimetry
Verron, Jacques
       Lucile Gaultier, LEGI
       Jacques Verron, LEGI/CNRS
       Jean Michel Brankart, LEGI/CNRS
       Pierre Brasseur, LEGI/CNRS
In the ocean, turbulent dynamics encompasses a wide range of scales and is characterized by
high energy levels including at smaller scales such as the so-called submeso-scales (e. g. Klein et
al, 2010). In this paper, we explore the feasibility of using tracer information at the submeso-scales
to possibly control ocean dynamic fields that emerge from altimeter data analysis. In order to do
so, we choose an image data assimilation strategy in which a cost-function is built that aims at
minimizing the misfits between some image of submeso-scale flow structure and tracer images.
In the present work we have explored the extent to which the Finite-Size Lyapunov Exponents
(FSLE) can be considered as a proxy characterizing the submeso-scale flow structure. The choice
of Lyapunov Exponents as a proxy for tracers is motivated by d'Ovidio et al (2004), where similar
patterns between tracers and FSLE images are evidenced.
A prerequisite to the study is that the relation between the ocean dynamics and FSLE can be
inverted, that is to say that the submeso-scale information transmitted through the intermediate
FSLE proxy is effective in controlling the ocean system. This assumption is tested in a 10° by 10°
regional piece of ocean in the North East Atlantic. The ocean dynamical variable to be corrected
is the mesoscale altimetric velocity field. Therefore, the sensitivity of FSLE horizontal patterns
to velocity errors is investigated. To do so, a Gaussian velocity error field is created using up to
fifteen years of altimetric data. A cost function is the                                                           n defined to measure the misfit between the
Lyapunov exponents computed using velocities with errors and the Lyapunov exponents derived
from a 'true' (error free) velocity. It is found that a global minimum can be identified in this cost
function proving that the inversion of FSLE is feasible.
The feasibility and the success of the inversion of sub-mesoscale tracer information to correct a
mesoscale altimetric velocity field is also shown on a test case with real observation (from AVISO
for the velocity and from MODIS sensor for the tracer) in the Mediterannean sea.
These results show the feasibility of assimilating tracer submeso-scales into ocean models for
the control of mesoscale dynamics and larger scales as deduced from altimetry. It demonstrates
that tracer data can usefully complement altimetry for an improved description of the ocean
dynamics.

